mr reynolds go ahead
okay at seven o'clock we'll go ahead and
start our regular school board meeting
i'd like to welcome all of you here
tonight we have a nice crowd i
appreciate all of you coming this time i
need a roll call with hancock mr burton
aye mr fitzgerald aye mr henderson aye
ms merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon all
right mr dogs
thank you
i need action uh to certify and related
closed action items from closed session
please
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald aye mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
doss ah now
um closed action item emotions please we
have a motion to approve personnel
changes for june 14 2022 as presented
so move
second
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald aye mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
doss aye
we have a motion to wage school board
policy gbopc retirement for linda clark
williamson
to allow her to retire under the early
retirement incentive program effective
july 1 2022.
i'll make a motion second
any discussion
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald aye mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
doss all right
we have a motion to waive school board
policy gbo pc retirement for anita adams
to allow her to retire under the early
retirement incentive program effective
august 1 2022.
so move second
any discussion
roll call mr burton uh mr fitzgerald aye
mr henderson aye ms merricks aye mr
mills aye mr moon aye mr dolls
motion to increase salaries for the
superintendent and the clerk for
2022-2023
at a rate comparable to the average
increase for all other employees
contingent upon final approval of the
state budget
any discussion
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald aye mr henderson aye ms
merritt aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
dolls
mr doss members of the school board
have a special recognition and
request for approval this evening would
like to recognize mrs angela adams i
believe she's in the crowd of miss adams
will stand this evening
miss adams has been selected as the new
assistant principal of stony mill
elementary school
some of you on the board may have served
on that committee that interviewed
a great panel of applicants
she rose to the top and we had a stellar
pool of applicants
who interviewed for this position i'd
like to let you know a little bit about
mrs
adams
she has taught at stoney mill for 90
years
a teacher of special education early
childhood education
she has a bachelor's degree from average
university she has a masters in early
childhood special education from
lynchburg college and she has a masters
in administration supervision for avert
university
so welcome mrs adams this evening
congratulations
[Music]
you have a motion
so move
second
all right roll call please mr burton aye
mr fitzgerald aye mr henderson aye
mr ms marriage aye mr mills aye mr moon
aye
i also have a few other recognitions
this evening if you'd like
we've had
several
opportunities for staff members to apply
for assistant principalships throughout
the springtime
and it's happened pretty quickly i've
been so
we haven't had the opportunity to
formally recognize many of these
individuals
so i would like to to do that at this
time
so i think we've we have them in our
audience this evening i'd like to ask
mrs paula simpson that she's here mrs
simpson has been selected as the new
assistant principal of kentuck
elementary school
mr adam luhoff has been success
chosen to be the assistant principal at
tunstall middle school if you all would
stand please
mrs cassandra pittman has been selected
as a new assistant principal at gretna
middle school
mrs jessica waller has been
chosen as a new assistant principal at
chatham middle school
i see mrs stacy oaks here this evening
like to recognize her she is going to be
a coordinator here at central office she
is now the current principal
of
gretna high school
congratulations to each one of these how
is there anyone else in the audience
that i may have missed this evening
anyone else
okay congratulations to these
individuals
[Music]
[Applause]
all right before i go and move into the
business
i wasn't here last month i happen to be
at home sick but
i would have said this last month but
this has been like the covered years has
been a tough year we've been back at
school every day with all the students
which has been great but it's still been
a extremely hard year for the teachers
administrators and the staff
those over here in the central office
and and everybody it's truly taken a
team effort to get through this school
year and i think our folks did an
outstanding job
rising to the occasion as as they always
do
i fully expected us to have a lot of
problems a lot of bad sol scores and
guess what that hasn't been the case
the preliminary sol scores are looking
much better than i thought they would
look and that's really a testament to
all the hard work that's been done by
the folks that work for the school
division so i want to personally thank
all of you you know it from from the bus
drivers to the cafeteria workers the
janitors it takes everybody to make this
school system work
and there were times when when people
were doing double and triple duty to try
to make make it work buster i was
driving two routes instead of one and
you know all of these kind of things
that that they had to do extra and i
really appreciate it and it's made a
difference and it's been great to have
the students back this year
and i hope that most of the covets
behind us now and we can continue to go
five days and do what we've done because
the students really do need it that's
one thing that you can see now as bni
really did hurt um it hurt the students
it i think it hurt their
the personality the kid the friendships
and all that suffered from this so i'm
glad we're back and i truly want to
thank all of the employees
i know they worked hard
all right any additions to the agenda
yes sir i need a motion to approve the
agenda then
some move second
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald aye mr henderson aye ms
merritt aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
doss all right
consent agenda
movie approved
second
any discussion on any items in the
consent agenda that's a lot
all right roll call please mr burton aye
mr fitzgerald aye mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon
aye mr doss
hi
this time we're going to do our public
presentations and announcements first up
is the recognitions of students miss
petty
i need to do this
chairman doss school board members dr
jones good evening
it is my pleasure to recognize students
this evening in the areas of perfect
scores on industry certifications
and 13 years of perfect attendance
as i begin with the recognitions as i
call the student's name i would also
like administrators to join our board
members
first i will recognize two students
from
the dan river high school denver high
school den river region
so first
we have colton atkins
so the certificate that each student
receives states pennsylvania county
schools this certificate of excellence
is presented to the student in
recognition of appreciation for
outstanding achievement for industry
certification
perfect score
congratulations
to our first student
who is
colton adkins
[Applause]
our next student
is catalina hickey
perfect
at perfect scores on the denver high
school industry certification wise
financial literacy
[Applause]
from gretna high school
eli clark
industry certification perfect score
microsoft office excel
congratulations to our students for
perfect scores on the industry
certification
[Applause]
these plaques will read
pennsylvania county schools the
certificate of excellence is presented
to the student in recognition and
appreciation for outstanding achievement
for attaining 13 years of perfect
attendance for grades k-12 granted this
14th day of june
2022 by the pennsylvania county school
board school board chairman calvin doss
and school board vice chairman don moon
our first recipient
from dan river high school is madison
moore
from chatham high school madison moore
chatham high school jason reese is the
principal
congratulations madison morich out of
high school
[Applause]
okay a shire glass
13 years perfect attendance
gretna high school
[Applause]
and our next student is isaiah boone
gretna high school 13 years of perfect
attendance
[Music]
[Applause]
so
congratulations to all of our students
on this outstanding accomplishment
[Applause]
this
can you imagine 13 years of going
through childhood not getting sick i
don't know how you did it
that's truly outstanding to be able to
do that
all right next up we have recognition of
new employees mr mayhew do you have any
idea new ones
you don't see any
okay
thanks
um
the next on the agenda is pennsylvania
is for a brighter future but they
couldn't be here tonight so we're going
to move that down and let dr jones talk
about that during his time
um
so next we have request to address the
board and miss brakely is she here
right here okay
is that right
mr dos
school board members superintendent
jones
good evening
i'm gail brakely a pennsylvania county
resident and a graduate of dan river
high school
and a member of the freedom of choice in
education era
1964 through 1969 steering committee
thank you for the opportunity to address
the board
this committee is partnering with
pennsylvania county public library
pennsylvania county branch of the naacp
and the pennsylvania county historical
society the committee has been meeting
since october 2021
and has developed a strategy for
recognizing and celebrating those
students who the committee strongly
believes were instrumental in paving the
way for a smooth transition to fully
integrate schools in pennsylvania county
2024 will mark the 60th anniversary of
the beginning of the freedom of choice
and education era
to commemorate that significant period
in virginia and in the united states the
steering committee and its supporters
ask your support
in placing plaques with the names of
those brave african-american students
who participated at that school
in the freedom of choice program from
school year 1964-65
through school year 1968-69
our request is that these plaques be
placed in their respective high schools
chatham dan river gretna tunstall
to further expound on the project
there is no cost to pennsylvania county
for the project or for the presentation
ceremony funding will come from private
donations
local state and federal grants
plaques will be uniform in color
size and general design
each plaque will be unique in displaying
the school logo and or mascot and the
ending the arrangement of the students
names
we have committee members from each of
the four high schools and we solicit the
support of pennsylvania county schools
in each high school in helping us ensure
that we get an accurate list of names of
students who participated in the program
a presentation ceremony will be planned
for each high school
many of the courageous students who were
part of the freedom of choice and
education era 1964 through 1969 have
gone on not only to impact pennsylvania
county but also the commonwealth and
even the world
the steering committee sees this
endeavor as an opportunity to
commemorate these individuals and to
honor pennsylvania county schools for
its commitment to serve all students
now we have another brief presentation
good evening to the school board i'm
reginald carter i attended tunstall high
school
i would like to thank you for this
opportunity to stand before you
like many of us i came from a humble
beginning
from the first grade through the fourth
uh through the fourth grade i attended a
rose wall school
we didn't have outs we had outside
bathrooms no running water
we had to bring our lunch from home
from fourth grade through the seventh
grade i attended stoner middle school
my brother was among the first to attend
and graduate from a freedom of choice
school
he encouraged me to do
to follow his footsteps as well
as you can imagine it was a challenging
experience
a thousand kids
a gym auditorium
and a cafeteria
most of the kids
were cordial
every and then someone would say
something or do something that they
shouldn't
but we usually worked it out
most of my experiences were positive
i played sports
and learned how to work with others
and learn the culture of other
individuals
which has been a great advantage to me
in life
the freedom of choice is a significant
part of the past
that should be remembered
and not lost in history
because this was a transitional period
in pennsylvania county
in my life
and all who participated in it
because this was a bottle of time in
virginia
it would be so gratifying knowing
that we who faced the challenge
played a smaller part
in history this plaque will be greatly
appreciated thank you
at this time we're going to ask the
committee members who are present to
stand
a reverend carter is going to distribute
to each of you a packet of information
that we ask that you review
at your leisure
thank you
okay thank you thank you for your time
thank you and we look forward to working
with you to make this recognition
memorable for our community i've got a
question in the packet do you have like
what size the plaque would be and all of
that information
what we have we have policies and
guidelines that we go by when we put
anything in and i will refer all of this
to that group to do that
so they need all of that pertinent
information
we don't have that in our packet but
what we wanted was for if it's approved
then we want to work with because of
your policies we want to work with the
board and the schools so that we can get
the appropriate size so are you the
contact person for the who you are
no actually margie richardson
is the contact person and her name
is included in that packet as well
somebody that we can have that we can
contact to kind of work okay yes
thank you thank you
just sawing make sure all this gets to
the appropriate place thank you thank
you
thank you
um next undone
[Music]
next we have mr fisher
greetings to each of you members of the
board i know you have a very difficult
job with some
of the most difficult circumstances
we've seen
in our nation because of an attack on
our schools
during the aftermath of a massacre of
children we see in the responses of our
people something of the character we may
share
and we also observe something of the
moral character that we lack
first of all we see the ugliness of
politics that immediately asserts itself
to leap at the opportunity to manipulate
and exploit the butchering of innocence
in order to slander our civil rights as
a free people to freely and without
infringement keep and bear arms
why do certain political
politic why do certain politicians leap
into this vile bloviation of lies
against our civil rights
why is this political triggering
promoted and manipulated and not soundly
rebuked
by all of our representatives
we are seeing before our eyes the smoke
and mirrors that smear any discussion
for any meaningful
change ideas that focus on an actual
solution to actually safely defend our
children
to these corporatist fake news media
the discussion must always be only on
the diatribe and spew against the
manufacturer distribution sales and
ownership of firearms legally
manufactured objects
but 19 children are still dead
yes we are failing our children yes it
doesn't have to be this way
what it takes is a true willingness to
guard
her children
our schools are put to utter shame by
the fact that homeschooling co-op groups
small churches a small percentage of the
education numbers overall in our nation
are all together armed and defended to
the extent of i do believe a two to one
margin
compared to the
occasionally patrolled
public schools
do we care about our children
let's defend our children
not defending our children is tentative
to moral failure
let the discussion begin
regarding actual solutions actually
defending our children
neglecting this truth turning away from
the need for service sacrifice and
meaningful effective strategy
this
turns us to another truth time
let's face what we need to do
again the pathetic perverse purveyors of
political verbal vomit are spewing a
whining hatred for a modern object of
legal manufacture but the change we need
is all about our character if we will
rise and sacrifice of ourselves whatever
is needed to ensure a safe place for
learning all of our places of learning
should be safe all of our places of
learning should be
defended
guarded
the change we need is as obvious as any
free people's reasonable dedication to
provide for our common defense
i hope we can talk more about guarding
our children
i hope that ideas come forward
and that we can move forward in that
vein thank you
thank you mr fisher
there was a bill
before the virginia legislature this
year that were provided sros for every
single school and that bill failed
so if i could ask you to write to your
virginia state legislators to try to get
that passed
because that did fail this year i really
thought it was going to make it but it
didn't
but you're correct i would like to see a
school sro with resource office in every
single school we have
all right
so that brings us next to our graduate
of merit miss patty
chairman daws school board members dr
jones i am very pleased to share with
you a thank you letter from one of our
graduates of merit
may 23 2022
dear pennsylvania county school board
members
i am writing to thank you for
recognizing me as a pennsylvania county
schools 2022 graduate of merit
i was honored to have received a plaque
and further distinction at the ceremony
on may 19 2022
my goal is to become a veterinarian with
a focus on large animal treatment i plan
to follow an accelerated tract by
majoring in dairy science focusing on
the science pre-debt
option and minoring in accurate business
management and entrepreneurship prior to
applying to veterinary school
i have been accepted to the dairy
science program located within the
college of agriculture and life sciences
at virginia tech and will begin classes
in the fall of 2022
the various scholarships i was awarded
as a graduate of merit have lightened my
financial burden which allows me to
focus more on the most important aspect
of school learning
your generosity has inspired me to help
others and give back to the community
i hope one day i will be able to help
students achieve their goals just as you
helped me sincerely grayson haskins
chatham high school class of 2022 and i
echo grayson i thank the board for all
of your support of the graduate of merit
program thank you
miss patty it was nice to be back in
person this time it was wonderful to see
the students and do it and you and ms
adams did an outstanding job putting it
back together again
i want to thank y'all it was a great
night we had a lot of great students and
and i was really happy to be back in
person
thank you
okay
next is the pennsylvania education
association dr jessica jones
the other dr jones i usually say
i would ask if you were enjoying your
summer but you told me you was going to
be busy so
i have not failed at this point
so
chairman doss good evening
superintendent jones our school board
members central office staff and
everybody in attendance
as i stand here with another ear
infection by the way
yeah
there are two at least two monumental
events that are currently
taking place that impacts the
commonwealth as a whole
the first is june is wait for it
national dairy month
how many y'all knew that
good job bonus point i'll get your gift
next month okay and the second is that
this is virginia agriculture week how
many did y'all know that
i got different friends on facebook i'm
sorry
okay next time sheet off his paper
so starting out as national milk month
in 1937
as a way to promote drinking milk
national dairy month was initially
created to stabilize the dairy demand
when production was at a surplus
but it has now developed into an annual
tradition that celebrates the
contributions that the dairy industry
has made to the world
now national dairy month is a great way
to start off the summer which officially
summer solstice is next
tuesday june 21st
with nutrient-rich dairy foods and yes
ice cream is included
from calcium to potassium dairy products
like milk contain nine essential
nutrients which may help to better
manage your weight
if you're looking for a weight loss plan
program thing to help you out milk is
good
also reduce your risk of high blood
pressure it actually helps to clean out
your arteries and then also helps with
osteoporosis and certain cancers
so as a virginia milk commissioner and
an avid milk drinker i encourage you to
understand these are just a few reasons
why you should celebrate this very
delicious
occasion so make sure you go and
celebrate next tuesday with a glass of
milk and a kona ice cream okay
now two governor glenn younkin has
proclaimed june 12th through the 18th of
this year as virginia agriculture week
to recognize celebrate and thank the
commonwealth's agricultural community
now we all know i'm an ag ed teacher
right so i'm gonna have to talk about
this
now agriculture is the commonwealth's
largest private industry with an annual
impact of 70 billion dollars to the
commonwealth's economy and employs over
334 000 virginians across the
commonwealth
now according to glenn yonkin
agriculture continues to pave the way
for smart growth and prosperity and
communities across the commonwealth
this vital sector of our economy
continues to spark innovation economic
growth and of course opportunity
virginia farmers and agribusinesses not
only play a critical role in providing a
safe affordable
and nutritious
food and fiber supply but they do so
while continually seeking to improve
productivity
and promote resource conservation
he as well as i
hope that you join him in showing your
appreciation for virginia's agriculture
community by thanking farmers and
purchasing virginia grown products
i would like to add that pennsylvania
county is ranked second overall in the
commonwealth as one virginia's top five
counties
having a little over 246 thousand acres
of land and farms we are vested by our
friends in the valley augusta county who
have a little close to 291 000 acres of
land and farms so we're constantly
working
now virginia secretary of agriculture
and forestry and a
long time friend of mine matt lohr has
said in addition to nutrition and
economic impacts agriculture contributes
to our health and well-being
secretary lohr will actually be in
pennsylvania county this friday june the
17th to celebrate virginia agriculture
week at the 50th eastern regional junior
angus show
if you would like to participate in the
event and hear directly from secretary
lohr and other special guests please let
me know as rsvps are actually due
tomorrow wednesday june 15th
on another note regarding tomorrow and
maybe even hopes for tonight maybe even
next on our agenda
yes she knows you know his employees and
potential employees learning more about
where they financially stand for the
upcoming school year
folks acknowledge and appreciate the
letter that you dr jones sent to
employees in mid-may assuring those
recommended to receive a contract would
indeed have a position
two knowing the school board as a whole
approved an average seven percent cost
of living adjustment to salaries for the
upcoming year
and the general assembly earmarking
about 10 percent
increase in teacher salary over the next
biennium which is 20 22 23 23 24
inquiring minds and wallets want to know
what that actually looks like
due to the rising cost of
everything
and further we would like to commend you
dr jones for sending out a staff survey
to gather feedback on how employees
believe pennsylvania county schools is
performing as an organization
we thank you for seeking the honest
input of pcs people
i would like to note that some were and
are hesitant to complete the current
survey
that was provided in the superintendent
wrap up on may 27th
because the ask of identifying self
through email
made some a little bit hesitant to
provide their best response
further some believe they've missed the
survey and some were like i didn't know
there was one
what that being said if the survey could
be resent without the email requirement
you may be able to obtain
the more value feedback that you seek
from your people
so thank you
thank you and enjoy the rest of your
summer
all right that brings us to our staff
and committee reports part first up is
our budget and then the year spending
but swirly i guess you're going to cover
it all right
good news almost good news we have a
state pass budget with the exception of
the governor hadn't signed it yet right
exactly so it's not official yet it is
not official you are correct so good
evening chairman dolls dr jones school
board members and staff i will be very
brief tonight i'm sorry to say
we will talk a little bit about the
current fiscal year and then we'll
briefly touch on next year and where we
stand as of today i think everyone is
aware that on june 1st the general
assembly passed a budget
that
only went to governor younkin i believe
last thursday
so he has seven days he has until
midnight on thursday night
to make amendments veto or accept the
budget as is and i believe general
assembly is scheduled to meet on friday
so that leads me to believe there's
going to be some amendments um coming
forth
right now we have seen the general
assembly version
um 4 23 and 24 and i will say that it
does look good for education
i have
received the entitlements from vdoe
and based on the budget that we adopted
and the board of supervisors passed for
us in may i believe i do believe we'll
be able to meet those obligations as
long as the governor does not make any
changes
but we do need the state money to make
that happen so we will not move forward
until the governor signs the budget
and if you remember some of the things
we'll just skip to 23 first then we'll
move back to 22. um
one of the things in our budget was an
average seven percent salary increase we
also made adjustments in there for um
the minimum wage increase that's going
to happen january of 23
we increased some supplemental pay we
had some new positions in there we're
looking at travel increase going with
the federal rate for reimbursement to
our employees and you know that just
changed this week for the upcoming year
and then a minor operating increase so
they those things look right now it
looks like we will be able to do all of
those things
we just need a final budget from the
governor so we are waiting for that
um
let's move back into 22 and that'll kind
of finish things up for us with 23 as
well right now things are looking very
good for us we should be able to meet
all of our obligations um for the
current fiscal year we have started
quite a number of maintenance projects
you know we approved i believe
last month a roof for pctc and for
browseville we have lots of hvac
projects going on which that is cares
money
i mean of course we have our year-end
maintenance list that includes painting
and tiles and floor coverings and
insulation all the things that need to
be done to get our schools ready for the
following year we are working on those
we'll pay as much of that as we can the
rest will be carried over will carry
over funds in the next year
we are also planning to carry over funds
for fuel next year you know we only made
a two hundred thousand dollar budget
adjustment for that
um and right now
i'm just looking at doubling what we
spent this year and that's going to be
well over a million dollars so that is
definitely on our on list for carryovers
and another item for carryovers the
general assembly has passed a
bonus for employees
they have there's a lot of flexibility
in this bonus it is
the writing states a thousand dollars
per soq employee so we're getting about
eight hundred and eleven thousand
dollars from the state
for that particular group of employees
they are allowing school divisions you
can take that whole pot of money and
divide it over all of your people
or you can take that pot of money work
with the one thousand dollars for your
um employees
and then we would come up with the
remaining money so that all employees
that's been our practice in the past if
we give a bonus all employees
full-time and part-time would receive an
amount and for right now that is what
we're thinking for this bonus as well it
does have to be paid by december 1.
and my recommendation would be that we
would carry over money
for next year to pay this for all
non-soq employees
so that's the piece that kind of takes
us back into on the 2023 budget
right now things are looking really good
for us so it is possible that we could
have some money some carryover money for
capital projects and i'm talking roofs
hvac large capital projects
so any questions on
either one of those 22 or 23.
anybody have any questions
just keep your fingers crossed to the
governor will sign it right as is
absolutely thank you
thank you miss world
next is a building committee report mr
henderson you the chair of that building
committee do you have anything to report
is this where we do the nomination do we
do that under new business
some of the new business i'm sorry just
say what the committee is talking
about tell you what the committee talked
about talked about the building
committee yes
[Laughter]
now we have a petition in front of us
that um
some citizens from gretna
district has
filed with us they would like to rename
or name the stem
stem classroom at gretna elementary in
the name of brianna y takata
who
has been with the school system for 47
years i think is that correct 47 years
highly recommended
great lady
great teacher great worker great
professional person so we'll address
that in uh in the new business but we
the the committee has seen fit to
forward on to the
school board
they
request to name
the stem
classroom
brianna y takata in gretna elementary
you're close it's brenna
is it bruno it's brella it's not brianna
brenna okay but she was close oh close
you got to cut it right i got the
counterweight
and we will uh take that up in the new
business
thank you miss tenderson
mr scott you want to talk to us a little
bit about operations and school safety
good evening the recent tragedy in
yuvalde texas has highlighted the
importance of school and campus safety
nationwide however for years here in the
commonwealth in general and within our
own division in particular we have
engaged in a continual process of
monitoring and refining our
division-wide and school-specific crisis
management plans
in fact since 1997 requirements
mandating school safety audits and
school crisis emergency management and
medical emergency response plans have
been codified in state statute
the following information is offered to
provide insight into the concomitant
school safety measures currently in
place within our school system
during the months of july and august
principals at each of our schools will
complete their annual school safety
surveys in preparation for their annual
school safety audits the surveys
themselves which are administered in
conjunction with the virginia department
of criminal justice services virginia
center for school and campus safety and
the virginia department of education
collect data from individual schools
from the most recently completed school
year the information collected is then
used to compile the division safety
survey which is switches submitted to
the state upon completion
data from these documents and
information collected during the school
safety audit process guide the
division's efforts in refining its
crisis management plan and in targeting
any necessary changes in regulations
revisions and crisis management
protocols and or associated capital
improvements to enhance school safety
also every year beginning with weekly
exercises during the first 30 days of
school and continuing monthly thereafter
each school in the division conducts
fire and lockdown drills additionally at
greater intervals throughout the year
schools practice their emergency school
bus evacuation earthquake and tornado
responses school and division level
personnel
monitor and document these drills which
are conducted on announced and
unannounced bases
despite the routine schedule according
to which they're conducted such
exercises are designed to highlight the
need for necessary changes and
improvements and to provide the
opportunity for reflection upon best
practices not to serve as mere
robotically executed rope drills
toward this end the operations
department conducts schools annual
school safety audits each fall not only
to ensure compliance with division and
state level requirements
but to provide school administrators
faculty members students and other
stakeholders with the opportunity to
share their insight regarding matters of
concern needed improvements and
revisions to crisis response protocols
part of each school's audit includes the
use of the current inspection checklist
for virginia public schools as developed
by the virginia department of criminal
justice services and the virginia
department of education
following the completion of each audit
division level staff compile written
reports to document in detail the
findings of each school's audit and to
propose plans for addressing any safety
related issues
these reports also serve as guidance
documents in applying for state school
security equipment grants and in
planning for related capital
improvements
as a result of school security equipment
grant funding awarded in recent years
our division has been able to update
video surveillance and audio
communications systems in many of its
schools future plans include the
continuation of similar improvements as
funds and equipment become available
following the conclusion of the annual
safety audit process the school system
convenes its safety audit committee to
review its school's audit findings and
to submit any plans as needed for
improving school safety to the school
board
this year the committee which consisted
in accordance with code of school parent
community and local government
representatives met on march 3rd 2022 to
review schools completed safety audits
and to review the division level crisis
management plan
the committee's report along with
commendations and recommendations was
presented to the board in memo op 49
2122 at its march meeting additionally
following its its approval by the board
in march the most current revision of
the school system's crisis management
plan was posted to the division's
website where it may be accessed by all
stakeholders
since the presentation of the safety
audit committee's work to the board our
schools administrators faculty and staff
have continued to work diligently to
ensure that our schools remain safe
division level administrators continue
to evaluate the efficacy of existing
safety protocols and equipment and to
examine the benefits and feasibility of
new technology and devices to assist our
schools in their efforts to safeguard
all students faculty and staff although
time constraints prohibit an exhaustive
description and analysis of each in this
forum gunshot detection units
bulletproof glass and classroom doors
code red buzzes in classrooms mobile
communications devices including cell
phones and handheld radios enhanced
automated notification systems and
additional staffing are among the many
possibilities being considered across
the country throughout the commonwealth
and locally
although there exists no panacea that is
no all-encompassing cure to completely
eliminate all danger we are fortunate to
have the support of numerous agencies
especially the virginia department of
criminal justice services and the
pennsylvania county sheriff's department
in our efforts to shield our children
and employees from harm our division has
recently applied for and received
funding from the virginia department of
criminal justice services that will pay
up to seventy three thousand five
hundred dollars for the creation of
collaborative response graphics for the
21 schools in our county these crgs are
on our site specific common operating
pictures in essence digital maps that
enable better communication during an
emergency they combine accurate floor
plans high resolution imagery emergency
response pre-planning and gridded
overlays into one map
additionally our school system is
supporting the pennsylvania county
sheriff's department in its application
for a grant to provide funding for the
placement of gunshot detection units in
all county schools these two initiatives
alone will greatly benefit our schools
safety and security
in addition to these measures the
referendum to increase the county sales
tax by one percent will if passed
provide funding for capital improvements
to our divisions elementary schools
including the installation of new and
more secure doors and windows the
construction of security vestibules and
the elimination of mobile classrooms
located outside of school's main
buildings that require students to
travel beyond the safe confines of our
schools walls when moving from classroom
to classroom
the support of our citizenry at the
ballot box this november will be
essential in making these capital
improvements a reality
in addition to the projected
improvements the following are among the
maintenance projects already currently
underway in our division the
installation of new led ball field
lighting at our four high schools is
nearing completion
all lighting units are in place and
technicians are working on the wiring
for the football fields at dan river and
tunstall fine adjustments on the fields
at chatham and gretna including night
time adjustments are underway in the
completion of the lighting project as
anticipated by the end of june or the
1st of july
construction crews are diligently
working on the hvac upgrades at kentuck
elementary school and most of the duct
work in classrooms is now complete
piping and electrical work or continuing
according to schedule and as is window
installation because of equipment delays
the classroom units will not however be
able to be installed until the summer of
although chile units will be installed
when they arrive in late fall classrooms
will use their existing window units and
radiators for the
2022-2023 school year the new units will
be placed in service at the start of the
23-24 school year dropped ceilings and
classrooms will be reinstalled for the
opening of school this year
as is the case it can tuck much of the
equipment for the hvac project
pennsylvania career and technical center
will not arrive until fall despite being
ordered in february and march
contractors are currently working to
install much of the new piping and duct
work however the school will continue to
operate mainly on the old systems
throughout the 2022-2023
school year the remaining equipment will
be installed as it arrives continuing
into next summer
solar panel installation is also
underway at dan river and tunstall high
schools where racking and wiring work is
nearing completion
panels are arriving now and will be
installed soon work will begin at
chatham and gretna as soon as the panel
installation has been completed at dan
river and tungsten power shutdowns will
be scheduled at each high school this
summer to facilitate the final
electrical grid tie-ins for the solar
power units all high schools should be
operating on partial solar power by the
end of august
in addition to the hvac and solar
projects that are underway the new
uh well at dan river high school will be
connected to the school this summer and
the wastewater drain field expansion at
kentuck elementary will begin later in
the season engineering
on the latter is nearing completion now
new roofing materials are on order for
broswell elementary school and it is
anticipated that work will be completed
on this project by the start of school
in august although materials are on
order for the roof at the pennsylvania
career and technical center they are not
expected to arrive until after the start
of school installation will begin as
soon as possible
in addition to these major summer
maintenance projects work on many
smaller jobs is also underway throughout
the division at the pennsylvania career
and technical center crews are
renovating the nursing cosmetology and
culinary arts laboratories also stem
labs are currently replacing old
hard-wired computer labs at broswell
gretna south side and union hall
elementary schools
mr mike hudson and his highly skilled
staff are commended for their efficient
management of these and many other
endeavors throughout our school system
in addition to the relocation of the
labs previously mentioned information
technology staff members are busy
readying thousands of chromebooks for
the return of students in august
their efforts in support of our
divisions one-to-one student-to-two
device initiative are being conducted
simultaneously
with the summer rollover of student
records and scheduling data in
powerschool and with countless other
summer network service projects they and
ms emily reynolds director of
information technology work diligently
behind the scenes to ensure the seamless
and uninterrupted flow of data in our
division similarly in addition to their
summer inspection and heavy project
workload on which they began working in
advance this spring the transportation
department's mechanics are laboring to
support the buses serving students who
are attending summer school their
efforts combined with those of the
department's administrative staff who
spent countless hours drawing new
specifically designed summer school
routes have made it possible to offer
door-to-door service for 750 students
attending summer session this year in
all four attendance zones
additionally the transportation
department has received funding from the
virginia department of environmental
quality to fund the addition of two more
electric school buses to the division's
fleet as noted earlier this grant will
make the cost of purchasing these
battery electric vehicles comparable to
that of purchasing diesel powered
equivalents these buses will be charged
using the department's existing protero
60 kilowatt charges with the
installation of two more dispensing
units that will be funded by dominion
energy this concludes this evening's
report
you need to hurry up and get school back
in so you can rest don't
that's a lot
and they think you get to sum us off
right
thank you mr scott i know you all have a
lot going on and i do know that getting
equipment in is a nightmare right now
yes sir it's uh it is for all
construction right now it's terrible
does any of the board members have any
questions on any of the remaining desk
reports mr dos i have a question for mr
scott
okay
you mentioned with the 1 sales tax
can
an addition be made to make the
vestibules in the middle schools as well
that is certainly something that that we
can look at
doing as we move forward depending on
the funding that is available there and
certainly when we
conducted the high school renovation
projects
earlier beginning in 2008 those
vestibules were put in place there so
certainly our goal would be to promote
that same level of safety at all of our
schools throughout the division
i think that needs to be added to the
top of the list yes ma'am
that almost bear
that all you got
okay anybody else i just want to
echo what
chairman said you folks do a great job
i don't we don't understand how you get
done the things you do
but we do appreciate everything you
folks do during the year especially
sometime
thank you
thank you mr scott
nobody has any other questions on any of
the desk reports i'm gonna move on to
the superintendent's report you all good
dr jones yes sir mr burton's
mr dos school board members
in your packet i have provided some good
news
about the schools and the first item
that i provided was the graduation
information
that mrs petty and mrs
craig provided uh in the staff reports
but kind of give you a synopsis of what
we did as far as graduates this year we
graduated 604 seniors
uh advanced diplomas 303
undergraduates 278
dcc associate degrees 9
dcc career studies certificates of 66
and dcc general studies certificates for
so our students did an outstanding job
as mrs petty has alluded to
in coming out atticovid and responding
very positively to getting back to
school this year also i have information
regarding the graduate merit program
we had
14 students from chatham high school 19
students from dan river high school 10
students from gretna high school and 39
students from tunstall high school who
qualified and were recognized that
evening and as you all are aware of
austin elliott from chatham high school
was a recipient of the pinnacle award so
we congratulate those students of in
their absence this evening
also ahead in you in your wrap-up or in
in the information they're provided to
you
and information from our wrap-up
information about the tunzel high school
robotics team
that team
advanced to the first chesapeake state
championship held in hampton
at the hampton coliseum
and dr jessica jones was recognized
for
she earned or won the compass
award so congratulations to her team
congratulations to dr jessica jones also
we had a national spelling bee
participant dan river middle school's
gavin maxey
had the honor of competing in the
scripps national spelling bee
in in maryland this this year
so that was great news and great
recognition for our school division
i'd also like to provide an update
regarding the sales tax referendum a lot
of work has taken place this spring and
many of you all have been a part of
those meetings so thank you for doing
that
i hope that you all are noticing that
signs
of vote yes for pcs signs are popping up
across the county if you need to sign
anyone in the audience anyone listening
this evening would like a sign
we have those available to place in your
yards of advertising this important
uh
election of item in november
i think our community is beginning
to understand the impact of the sales
tax referendum and what it will mean for
our school division
we
have many who are continually telling
those individuals across the county to
vote yes for pcs and they're sharing
this story they're sharing the handouts
that we've provided and we have those
available to you all if you would wish
to have those to hand out to others to
encourage them to vote yes
we have people posting our signs
we are we are inviting people groups are
inviting our team members to speak at
community events
a special thanks to the pennsylvania
county parks and recreation department
for supporting this effort each of the
four coordinators at each of the
locations are passing out flyers this
summer for summer events and plan to do
so in the fall so the word is getting
out
and the positive message is being shared
over the last three months
your team
and you included have met at the collins
fire department have spoken to the
chatham booster club or will speak to
the chapman booster club later this this
summer have spoken to the chatham town
council the dan river middle school
faculty pennsylvania county
and danville city chamber of commerce
gretna elementary pto
gretna town council hurt elementary
school hurt town council kentuck
elementary pennsylvania county board of
supervisors we've met we've spoken at
those meetings
we spoke to the pennsylvania county farm
bureau and i think mr burton was at that
meeting of the pennsylvania county at
school board meetings they attend here
and speak to you all
at each of your meetings and other
elementary schools stony mill and union
hall have spoken to the faculties and
met with the ptos
we are also very excited and grateful to
have the pennsylvania county naacp youth
preparing to record vote yes messages on
wkby
a script has been drafted and shared
with mrs porsche fitzgerald
who was coordinating the youth project
for us
we also have an interview planned with a
former school board member mr ed
hairston and members of the vote yes
team as well
videos have been prepared and recorded
of pennsylvania county citizens
each person is sharing why a vote yes is
important so a lot is going on a lot
will take place as we gear up in the in
the fall
as we push that message out as we near
of the election in november any
questions for me
again we thank you all for participating
in these
also in your packet this evening was a
resolution from the board of supervisors
regarding teacher appreciation week i
will not read that but that's in there
for you all
would also
share with you information regarding
middle school athletics
we've had interest
in middle school sports up come up and i
provided information about the process
that we would need to follow
a memo notifying the board
and mr dawson would you like me to go
through that are you all fine with what
i provided i can go through that process
if you would like i read it y'all okay
with it sure you already
you good with what you got i'm sorry you
want him to go through it are you good
well i'm okay with it okay
well i'm a little confused when i read
it
i understand if a program is already
established in the school to incorporate
something new like in the high school
but in middle school can't hear you
this at middle school this would be
incorporating an entirely new program
so it's not sport by sport it would be
an entirely new program with an official
ad
and then sport by sport
so this reads to me more so if you were
for instance like dan river high school
incorporated wrestling
one year so they already had a bhsl
status
with sports
yeah and i think you you hit on a good
point there if you look at the policy
that was provided to you the policy that
we all have the school board has in
place is that
sports athletics
based upon that policy
happened at the high school and not the
middle school so i think that's if you
would wish for us to look at middle
school sports we probably need to adjust
that policy first
and then from that
you know do you want to start an entire
middle school program of all sports or
do you would you like to start small
and then again it starts at the school
so it would come from someone who's
interested
sharing that with the principal
the principal would develop with that
person a rationale
that would go to the level director
the level director would refine it and
submit it to the superintendent
and if it meets approval there would
come to the school board for final
approval
but there are a lot of factors if you
look at that that memo that's that's
sent out to staff
we've got to look at the cost
you have to look at facility you have
the facilities to handle it do you have
the staff interested in coaching
there are a lot of you have we have to
be sure we have the insurance to cover
it there are a lot of factors that play
into that but it would start back in the
school level and then we could look at
it
and it may be if you're interested start
small with one or two sports
and work your way to expand it if that's
what you wish to do and i understand
that but at what point do you start
incorporating like an athletic director
at a middle school level
and and i think that begins back with
the principal the principal would
determine their needs
what do they need for just let's say you
want to start with one sport both girls
and boys
you know do they need and that would be
in the rationale do they need an
athletic director or could they pay a
part-time
pay someone to do it part-time but that
would be in the rationale they have to
think that through about their needs
can i um
jump in
yeah
okay i've done a lot of planning on this
uh in the last couple weeks i think
obviously there's
more than
ample people that are interested in
middle school sports i think that's a
given
if you incorporate it or if you put in
place
all sports
swimming soccer golf volleyball baseball
softball all of it it would cost you
right at about 125 000
upfront to do all of that at one time
my suggestion is is
like dr jones maybe we we do a couple
sports a year
uh it's maybe after five years six years
and we've gotten 100 participation in
all sports
uh
there's so many parents and so many
booster clubs
that are willing to to help with this to
get it jump started and i think it's
where we need to go dr jones correct me
if i'm wrong would it be possible to say
a committee of two representatives from
each school
serve on a committee to go to the
principles
with a plan
and the plan will come from somebody
you know we we've got a plan we'll just
present that to the principals and say
look this is what we would like to see
this is what people are willing to pay
what people are willing to do
the 125 000 that i told you about while
ago includes everything it includes 1800
for each coach it includes fifteen
hundred dollars for bus transportation
and so you know it's
it's it's a big figure
but if you just
kind of chew at it a little bit at a
time it's something i think that we can
all afford and and do and i would just
like to ask
do you think it's feasible to appoint a
couple people from each district to form
a committee to go to the principles and
start the process that you've outlined
that are rules and regulations that we
have to go by procedures we have to go
by
yes sir really this is a grassroots it
starts at the school level
so whoever that person who's interested
could present this to the principal and
then if the principal has interest then
they would work with this person to
develop the rationale and again it
starts there and then it works itself up
through the director to to the
superintendent's office or would it be
possible for us to
i'll use the word recruit for
something better to get a couple of
representatives and form a committee
to go to the principles is that out of
question
i i think that may be a a an answer that
mr dos the chairman would would have to
make to you as far as i think you're
asking as a board member would that be
something a board member
up should or can do and that i'd leave
that up to more chairman there
so i've been of course i've been getting
questions on this too and i think first
we have to
get the framework in place
in our policies and i'll like she said
it doesn't really address middle school
so i think we have to get i think there
are some things we need to do
at the upper level staff to put the
framework in place to allow it right
insurance is a biggie
because i don't think we have it right
now
and
and what is that going to look like and
how does it impact say eighth graders if
they gonna play jv and and so that
leaves sixth and seventh and and what
that should look like
so i think that can be done but but i
think you're right george i think
to get it going it's going to have to be
whichever school
dan rivers didn't have wrestling and
wounded they came to the board i think
was you on it
sammy was you on it
and they they were ready to go they had
their stuff in place to to it was very
easy for us to do it
so i think you're right i think you're
going to have to get the community is
going to have to help out
and there's going to have to be somebody
from the community spearheading it but i
think we need to have our framework in
place so that when they come here here's
the things that have to happen and you
think i'm right on that and if there's
someone interested in the community at a
school
their point of contact would be their
principal
so they should speak with their
principal their principal will call and
speak with me and then we will go
through what all is required for that
level and that will help that individual
pull together everything the principal
will need
perhaps to boost the club presidents are
the answer to that
they could but do they even have booster
clubs are you talking about the high
school booster clubs dropping down and
picking up the middle schools are you
talking about new booster club well
either i i know that i've been contacted
by high school booster clubs that are
willing
the whole
issue behind it is we are not
competitive once we leave pennsylvania
county
if you look at if you when i say that
and there there are some teams just
excelled and done okay but how many
times do we get to roanoke or do we get
to abbington or do we get to covington
to some christiansburg and that's where
the door closes because we don't go any
further than that because we're not
preparing our
our
ballplayers and our athletes like other
schools are
so i i've asked the superintendent i
know he hadn't had time to do it yet but
we may not have to invent the whole
wheel because there are other divisions
that are doing this
and i've asked him he i know he's got
some superintendents he knows that does
it that maybe he could reach out to
and maybe that maybe we can figure out
what that framework looks like
ms murx has also been involved in this
pretty heavily so
may i i i don't want to be out of order
okay but maybe miss merrick's and myself
and could approach or it doesn't have to
be us okay anybody could approach the
booster club presidents and at least get
it started get get the report going get
the conversation open and see where it
leads us from there do what we have to
do
according to the guidelines but move on
it
we what we've done is we keep the can
down the road for the last 15 years and
we've done nothing about it i understand
that economics has a whole lot to do
with it
we need to make sure we're able to to
within our framework accommodate it
though that's that's my concern that we
don't have that in place
we're not talking about
rec sports now we're talking about vhsl
absolutely so so we got to make sure
that we have
some type of a.d or somebody to
coordinate that for us right
well and i think in most school
districts if you look at the school
districts around our county every county
and city around us has incorporated
middle school sports
i think the focus is not just
competitiveness but also the education
value of it where you're implementing
at an early age with these students that
have been affected by covid to
[Music]
understand the importance of education
maintaining grades and such as well i do
believe that you need an 80 inside the
school but it's not designated to be an
assistant principal you advertise for an
80 you may have a teacher that
volunteers that that's what they want to
do of course you're going to supplement
but the sports will pay for themselves
well see you bring up a good point maybe
a full-time a.d at the high school may
could look at all the way down into the
middle school i don't know i know that i
know the current a.d slash assistant
principal cannot do it well i i would
not recommend something they they can't
do it so we're going to have to look at
how and that's part of what i've asked
dr jones when we talked earlier to maybe
look at what some of the others have
done in their framework but i think
those are things that we we as a board
have to put in place
to to be able to support
and not i i hear you
mr henderson but what i don't want
is a bunch of people to come in thinking
we're going to play volleyball in august
and we can't do it because we can't
support it i understand that so that's
that's where i don't want to go
i want you know i'm going to take crumbs
at a time yeah i'm all for it but i
think you know we got to make sure that
we
out of boston you say you got to crawl
before you walk and walk before you run
so i think we need to make sure that we
get these things mr burton i think you
have some
well
i've never seen a time
in my tenure
when the
people in the different school divisions
different school areas
wanting a sport to work
it didn't happen
but it's got to start with community
and we say you know
several people out there want to do it
they would love to do this and all
forward and i'll give you a recent
example
we had some people that were really
upset because they couldn't start a
fishing club at one of the high schools
and they said that the staff had
pooh-poohed it and wouldn't talk to them
well
they not gotten the message they wanted
to hear
when those same parents got together and
found out the cost and the commitment
that the parents would have to make they
were not interested in
and that's what would happen on these
things you need to have and as far as
individual board members want to talk to
somebody and ask them to go to the
principal that's fine
i don't think the board needs to be
asking people but board members on your
own
on your own that's fine
but it's going to take more than just
one or two people to make it work in the
middle schools because
you know you folks have been through it
the commitment you've got to have from
booster clubs to run concession stance
so it is a process it takes time but
i've never seen a time
that this board has not supported what
the people in the community want if
they're willing to do most of the work
we just can't do it and to say a
supplement or so eighteen hundred
dollars that seems fine but you gotta
find somebody right now willing to do
that and i think even in the high
schools we're having trouble finding
people that willing to coach
so it is it's not it's not a simple
thing it's workable
but it's to depend on a lot of effort
from each of the high school each of the
middle school
attendance zones to do it and that's
where it needs to start out that's what
i heard that's what i heard from the
superintendent
that you know if you find people want to
do it then they need to start that
conversation and i've heard it for at
least 15 years george but i haven't seen
i've heard people talk about how much
playing they've done but i haven't seen
them take that step to actually go in
and sit down and talk to and start that
conversation
are we clear
it's mud we'll get it rolling
we will get it rolling one way or the
other
when i was gonna say i have first-hand
experience helping with middle school
softball this year and
i contacted ads from counties around us
henry county is chomping at the bit to
accept pennsylvania county as long as it
is a true middle school program to add
us to their playing list we scheduled
games parents paid out of pocket for
jerseys we had a volunteer coach that
had zero ties to our girls i called
asked her would she consider coaching
she called a friend and they were former
athletes at the high school
not parents they were actual former
athletes just graduated college and
volunteered to coach out of their time
and we made the schedule and we made it
work and we took up a gate and you paid
the upside of the gate we had leftover
money that you could have paid
transportation out of it so it actually
i mean it can work and it can pay for
itself okay
so i'm going to ask the superintendent
to go back like we had talked about and
look at other other divisions that do
this
and try to see what their
how it's logistically done
you know who they have in place who does
it so forth if you will
and
if you can come back next month with
what you think we need to do when i say
we i mean as a as a division a board to
put in place the framework that would
allow
george like you wanted
people to come forward and say we're
ready to do this then we can accommodate
it
okay
and i just think one of the hiccups
would be if you leave it up to an
individual principle to make the
decision whether that sports played at
the school i think it needs to be a
division level
led
this is now a true middle school program
in our division
i think what will would probably happen
is if a group goes to the principal i'm
going to make an assumption here that
they would contact the superintendent
and talk about it right is that usually
and and then it gets to where we can
talk about it and see what we need you
know what it needs
um
i don't want to keep say anything but i
don't think the individual principal has
the authority to whether they can use
the knot it has to come for
superintendent board that somebody can
use well i mean if you follow the
current procedure
it's individual it goes through that but
it doesn't say i don't read any where
is that correct
so
so i guess first thing george is
to go ahead and let let the people of
the community start having the
conversation with the principals so go
ahead and get that started
and in the meantime we'll i'll get the
superintendent to look and see what what
and if we need to put in place for
example insurance or those things
the purpose of putting it on the agenda
was just to open the discussion and get
moving wherever we need to move and
and i appreciate you doing that dr jones
i appreciate your comment and i hope
that you can get some valuable
information from some of these other
localities that'll help us with that but
that wasn't me i could have filled this
room up tonight
with people that wanted to come and
speak three minutes i said no this is
just a meeting to find out where we go
from here that's the purpose of it we
obtained that i'm okay so i think i
think we know where we need to go
now okay um i do know miss murphy they
there was a push to try to get for
example soccer in gretna and they
couldn't get enough students to sign up
to play
so i mean
it's a lot of things that have to happen
and we still don't have soccer there's
still not enough interest
but the option was there the opportunity
was there we were going to do it but
it just
you got to have that the athletes the
students to do it and
it wasn't there so i do believe though
there's other sports that would probably
would be enough
all right dr jones i think you you're
still up there
you lost your place i think i'm finished
other than other than their vsba
conferences that are on
on your agenda here
a vsba conference on education is ul the
19th
uh the annual convention is november the
16th or 18th
and then we're going to have student
representative orientation on july the
12th
that's all i have all right
thank you dr jones so the next item we
is the student dress code again dr jones
i think we talked about another plan for
to to do that yes sir
we've spoken with the director of
secondary education the director of
middle school education they're going to
convene a committee uh that will in this
they'll meet this fall to discuss dress
code and look at you know whether
changes need to be made and they're
going to include on that committee
administrators teachers and school board
members
but so any any member that you would
wish to to serve on this committee
will notify you when it will begin the
meetings will begin
may i make a motion then
yes sir because we had a request a
couple meetings ago from the staff to
keep things that are for next year
i'd like to move that we keep things as
the as currently for the next year
and in the meantime this summer this
committee meets maybe in a work session
we get together and talk about what we
want to do and how we want to do
policies in the future but the motion is
to not change the dress code for next
year but continue next year i think
that's the plan but if you want to make
that emotion anybody want a second
second i apologize it's tough
hearing over here um unless you talk
about it
he made a motion that we continue with
the current dress plan this year and let
the committee
convene over the summer and do all the
work and implement it at the beginning
of next year
originally we had a request from staff
to keep the dress code as it is we never
took action on that if i'm cur if i'm
thinking right you're correct
so i'm just making a motion to take
action on their recommendation
that for the
new the new year which would be this
fall 22 and 23 the dress code remained
the same
and maybe by the next spring or fall we
will be prepared to do something for the
next year
mr dawson yeah may i see something all
right we're planning we're already
preparing handbooks and this information
is in handbooks
so any changes that
if the board made a change we'd have to
either redo handbooks or send out a
flyer or something a piece of paper
indicating what the new dress code would
be uh it may create confusion if we
change it midstream
did we do we have a second on that
motion i haven't heard okay we didn't
have a comment if you folks remember it
wasn't very many years ago
that one of our principals made a slight
change
at the end of the year in their school
and they sent it to everybody
and then follow the school open with a
new principal and i thought they were
going to run her off because they didn't
know about it he was in the handbook
in the previous year but still parents a
lot of them said they didn't know about
it there was a lot of confusion when it
was changed not in the handbook it was
so that means that i don't care how hard
you try to inform everybody
you've always the people are not some of
them are not going to come to their
front door to their facebook
i think i caught half of that are you
saying that it remains the same for the
school year 2022-23
the whole year yes yeah that's correct
and what dr jones said was you heard him
that the books have been printed
so if you changed it now you'd have to
send flyers or another book
and it would probably
be confusing probably
well i do think addendums can be made
and i think if you take time and
research
other areas in virginia and you research
the equal protection doctrine along with
title ix what we currently have does not
fall under that so i think it may need
to be looked at sooner than next year
apparently there's a motion in a second
on the floor you don't do a roll call mr
burton aye mr fitzgerald ah mr henderson
aye ms merricks no mr mills aye mr moon
aye mr doss aye
[Music]
all right
so
um
i think this was on the agenda
one time before when i was absent um
additional representation on the
minority advisory council
what i what came to me and i was looking
at is currently
there are the english is second learn
language second language is that right
um is not currently represented the
hispanic group in that advisory or we
don't they can be but it's not automatic
so what we were looking for here was to
add a second representative from each of
our
districts that we represent
to
add those as a
person to be on the
advisory council
you understand
this would be hispanic well that's news
to me but i hadn't heard it before you
hadn't heard it before no
there was there was something one time
that wasn't here right y'all better
though yeah
well i was here last month and somebody
had a discipline i didn't know it needed
to be
hispanic i thought well
i thought the issue was that there were
being such a low attendance
no that was it was confused that night
mr burton because i wasn't here what i
had asked for talked about was
i had gotten um calls and talked about
the hispanic community that they were
not didn't have representation
and they wanted to um to join it or
whatever
and that's why i had put that and it was
confusing that night i think i think it
was talked about low attendance yeah
but this is to actually give them some
representation is what this is for
okay
is it clearer now well yeah i've already
contacted my so i just
i'd like to put that in the form of
emotion that we extend it to two
representatives per locality
i'll second that motion at the last
meeting that is the motion that was made
to have two representatives from each
school that's been voted that's already
been voted on the issue that we have is
we currently have and it's in your
packet you currently have a listing the
minority advisor canceled members
haven't heard a word you see
you currently have in your packet of
materials the listing of the minority
advisory council membership as it was
during the
2021-2022 school year
that also included
staff
and school board members our question
tonight coming back is
do we still
want those additional members on that
committee on that cancel or would it
just be the two representatives from
each school board district
uh if i might have a question yeah i'm
not clear
so
i'm not
clear i thought we were just going to
add one more member too if i'm
understanding you want to wipe the slate
clean and go with new ones
i i think what we want to do is i think
we want to increase the number to two
and then we want to show we want to
stagger
the election cycle replacement cycle
there and so there's two years and then
there's a three-year
cycle there and i think that what four
magisterial districts are two years from
now and then
three years so that would allow us to
stagger so we don't replace them all at
the same time so we would add an
additional member and then we want to
stagger the replacement
yeah we voted la we voted last month to
add
but i don't think you were clear on it
right what we were well i always thought
of spirit time till night now fine i'm
not
so
now i'm not clear right
but we do want to leave the staff
members yes i think we want to leave
staff i think we just want to add
additional representatives from iowa's
and we want to stagger the term right
that's what i think i just heard and and
the ones that are on there now remain
until their time until they and their
term expires
she's got a list two or three years
yeah she's got the list if you just ask
for it
so can you go back you made a motion i
did so you're going to retract that one
and then make another one
[Laughter]
well the motion was to add one we've
already done that so we did that last
week
yeah we we voted on that i'm correct we
voted last year you didn't get a second
so yeah
i will withdraw the motion
now
now we want to add one and have
staggered terms
can you approve the rationale in the
packet
i will i will make that motion and get a
second so we discuss it okay
i have a second i'll second it okay now
mr berg if i understand
what we did last month we voted to add a
second one the only thing we're doing
there is stack of the terms
and
still we can pick whoever we want to we
don't
we're not going to
if we and then i would yes when we start
replacing them we can find some people
people right because we could have his
hispanic and other
groups there could be other minority
creatures
i'm shocked sometimes to see how many
different well i'm sure there are others
that probably want to be represented
i would
i've already spoken to my rep in the
anyway
i don't have a problem with that okay
that's good are we clear now mr dos when
does the staggered terms begin
as of now this school year the school
year
22-23
so i can't i can't start with two new
ones is that what you're saying
correct
well
what is
we'll have to get back with you no
so i'm going to have to
keep one and
i'm and add one okay i'll follow you
don't agree but i'll follow you
but that may not necessarily so
are we clear now we'll have to go back
and look at the terms
i didn't bring that i didn't put that in
there
i'm confused okay
there will be
two representatives from your district
they will be
appointed at staggered terms so that you
don't appoint both of them at the same
time
and you pick the minority that you want
but we need to make sure that we pick
representation of
other minorities i understand okay
okay is that does that clarify in
is everybody clear
and i'm sorry for the confusion because
i wasn't here from the dan river
district there will be two
both of them will be on a two-year term
that's correct
so they will be stacked they're not
going to be staggered from that district
would it be better to have staggered
put
each from each district one on a
two-year term and one on a three-year
term so that you do have staggering of
the districts
like right now like tunstall is listed
as a three-year term should one of those
members be on a two-year term and one be
on a three-year term
is this something we have to agree on
tonight i guess
i mean
we don't have to agree tonight do we
have to have it we have to have it in
place by um august so we can do it next
month if you want can we do that i mean
you know it
i just need i just need some
clarification and i'm not just getting
it i'm not ready let's move it put it
back on the unfinished business for next
month
i'll withdraw my motion
thank you mr burton
i wish wrong
i didn't aim for this to get this
complicated
what i aim to do was try to get some
representation for the hispanic
community because i had been approached
by that
mr dallas i'll make sure
that we'll do that and we'll try to come
up with a better stagger plan if we can
y'all
well let me can i ask a question to paul
on that
up on my end of the county in stanton
river i don't know any hispanic families
up there will you all provide a list
of parents
from the hispanic community that can be
talked to
i would imagine hurt elementary the
principal it hurt i would imagine
okay i'm i'm mad eric because i'm sure
that i just like to say i just don't
know any right off to
to come up with one
we'll work on on that
boom because i would imagine miss lara
somebody
just feels somebody's probably know
somebody yeah i could i could not
necessarily hispanic i mean it could be
some other minority i don't
we have some asian folks you know so
yeah there are some asians so
right we'll move that to next month
under new business
we need to elect a vsba delegate
alternate delegate for the annual
convention
ms marx are you going to the annual
i have not checked my calendar yet i
hope to
that does not mean that i'm going to
accept being a delegate or well but but
i want to say this it's a great
experience for a new member to learn
because you really learn a lot doing it
i completely understand and i will go
and observe if if i if it fits my
calendar but not accepting a delegate or
an alternate delegate
it's really gotten explained for me
twice
because i think last year we did that
online didn't we you did it last year
yeah i did last year online well we need
a delegate for this year
willie fitzgerald
willie fitzgerald mr fitzgerald you do
you want to do it
is this the november meeting yes yes you
get paid big money you'll still be
around
can you give me a little bit more
details on it
what it is don you did it last time you
want to tell him
right this is where they come up to the
what the vsba wants to support as far as
going forward and working with the
legislation and the legislature and all
of that nature so they take and bring it
up in meetings and they send you out of
packet with all the information in it
prior to that date
and um
then you vote on it and then if the main
thing come back last year was some of
them would make want to amend the
recommendations and make some changes so
the group the main group on
the sba would have to you know kind of
call it recess and talk among yourselves
on making sure they got the motion right
and all to bring it back out and pass it
it probably takes two hours if
everything
goes smooth with it
you represent us as one vote
you we remember to be sba so you
represent us as one budget
it would be live at the bhba convention
in williamsburg this fall
november 17th
yeah 16 through the 18th
will that person be in place by then
they have to get certified and it's not
certified until after that
so he'll still be able to serve at the
end of the year to the end of the year
that's why he's here
yeah it's gotta it's the election won't
be certified by then
because it's so many weeks before it
gets certified
all right
you you like mister did we have a second
for mr fitzgerald
thank you so much second mr fitzgerald
all right mr fitzgerald roll call please
mr fitzgerald
mr henderson miss marrix mr mills aye mr
moon aye mr doss all right
okay
you need an alternate
you want to be the alternate mr moon
since you did it last year i'd be fine
as long as mr fitzgerald will bail out
you can help mr fitzgerald yeah i'll be
glad too
make it make a motion
we got one we'll have a second second
okay we got a motion to say
mr burton aye
mr fitzgerald aye mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
dallas all right
it gets hard every time
feel
railroaded it's but for the for newer
members it is a good learning experience
it is
um first reading for request for a name
of a school board property it was
discussed earlier by mr henderson and
the building committee
for a stem lab up at gretna elementary
do i have a motion
i'll make a motion
any other discussion on that any
questions
it'll come back again next month for the
final reading
roll call please mr burton mr fitzgerald
mr henderson aye ms merrick aye mr mills
aye mr moon aye mr doss all right
next we have a revision of school board
policy um j
e d p c i'm going to ask that we wave at
the first and approve this
on tonight so it can go into effect
for the
um packet right for the um
second
any discussion
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald aye mr henderson aye ms
merritt aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
doss all right
then next is revision of school board
policies asked that we'll read that as a
first reading and they'll come back for
the final reading next month do i have a
motion i'll make a motion
second
any discussion
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald mr henderson ms merricks aye
mr mills aye mr moon aye mr doss all
right
next is a declaration of surplus
property it's a little small piece of
land that nobody knew that we still own
from the old renan school that was
disposed of years ago that we still have
so i have a motion to declare that
surplus
the motion is to declare identified
property on renown road as surplus and
schedule a public hearing for the sale
of the property
that's the motion
mr henderson gave the motion mr moon
seconded okay
mr burton mr fitzgerald aye mr henderson
aye ms merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon
aye mr doss all right
finally our request for special project
tunstall high school softball i think
they want to enclose the batting cages
they put a roof over the back cages
they're going to fund that move
got a motion second second
any other discussion on the tunnel
project softball
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald aye mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
doss all right
i'll entertain a motion
i just like to say one thing mr
fitzgerald being on this uh the sba
representative it's a good lesson in
parliamentary procedures
um
that they go through because they have a
certified parliamentary procedure
personnel to make sure that everything's
done good so that's
a secondary part to it but they are
involved with that on everything it's
done
i'll make a motion with adjourned
second
second roll call mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald aye mr anderson aye ms
merrick's mr meals aye mr moon aye mr
doss aye
thank you
you